# Manage-eBS-Product-User-Passwords / Mass-Update-eBS-Product-User-Passwords

Manage Product User Passwords (GL,AP, AR etc)
---------------------------------------------
When installing eBS, the product/schemas passwords will be set to a default password which is the same as the Username This password should for secutiry reasons be changed after installation, specially in a production environment.
Oracle provides two commands to change the passwords in eBS, the old fashioned FNDCPASS command and the more modern AFPASSWD command which is an enhanced version of FNDCPASS. 
Both of the commands are able to perform a mass update of the password for all product users in one go but then the password will be the same for all product users. 
It should be possible to run AFPASSWD from both Midtier or DBtier but i have never tried it from DBtier and therefore i will continuee to run it from midtier as i now that works.

-> Example with FNDCPASS

1. $ FNDCPASS apps/<apps_password>  0 Y system/<system_password> ALLORACLE <NEW PASSWORD>

-> Example with AFPASSWD, will prompt for new password and confirmation of new password

2. $ AFPASSWD -a 



-----------------------------------------------
Above approach with setting the same password for all product schemas might not be allowed to use and my opionion is it shouldnt be used in production at least. 
For me it looked like a whole lot of time and work to change all of the product passwords one by one and not to mention to come up with a password for all of them manaully, even though using a password generator online or so. Therefore i created some scripts to help performing a massupdate but with 12 characters long passwords generated by another bash script. All code is described below and with that all passwords will be different.


Mass Update Product User Passwords (GL,AP, AR etc)
--------------------------------------------------
Written for Linux (tested on OEL8) and should be downloaded to the application server.

The repository contains of 4 files. 

1. pwdgen                         # Shellscript to generate passwords for different accounts, can be from 12 to 64 characters containing capital letters and digits 0-9
2. products.txt                   # Contains all the product users in eBS R12
3. change_product_pwds.sh         # Shellscript used to change the password for all eBS product accounts, calling pwdgen to create passwords.
4. set_default_product_pwds.sh    # Shell script resetting the password for all eBS product accounts to default if needed.


To  create a directory and place the files in the repo in the newly created directory. Source the eBS environment.
1. run change_product_pwds.sh to set new passwords for all ebs Products users.
2. run set_default_product_pwds.sh to set all the passwords back to defa ult.

The script pwdgen can also be used standalone. $TWO_TASK needs to be set for the script to work. It can then be used just go as a simple password generator.
